How dark web agent spotted bedroom wall clue to rescue girl from years of harm

BBC Eye Investigations (byline: Sam Piranty)

WARNING: This article contains details about sexual abuse.

Specialist online investigator Greg Squire had hit a dead end in his efforts to rescue an abused girl his team had named Lucy.

Disturbing images of her were being shared on the dark web - an encrypted corner of the internet only accessible using special software designed to make owners digitally untraceable.

Even with that level of subterfuge, the abuser was conscious of "covering their tracks", cropping or altering any identifying features, and it was impossible to work out who, or where, Lucy was.

Squire works for US Department of Homeland Security Investigations in an elite unit which attempts to identify children appearing in sexual abuse material.

The reporting describes how these cases are often cracked by spotting tiny revealing details in images or chat forums.

Lucy’s case: investigators could see, from the type of light sockets and electrical outlets visible in the images, that Lucy was in North America. They analysed everything they could see in her room and found a sofa seen in some images was only sold regionally, not nationally, narrowing the potential customer base.

They then realized a clue could be the exposed brick wall in Lucy's bedroom. Squire searched for brick information and contacted the Brick Industry Association, who shared the photo with brick experts.

Brick expert John Harp identified the brick as a “Flaming Alamo” and explained that bricks are heavy and typically do not travel far, enabling geographic narrowing.

Investigators narrowed from a list of customers to a subset within a radius of the brick factory, then trawled social media and found a photo of Lucy with an adult who appeared close to her. They worked out an address and then additional related addresses.

They sent photos of candidate houses to Harp to assess whether the houses were likely to have been built during the period the brick was produced. Eventually they narrowed to one address and confirmed who lived there through records and school information.

They determined Lucy was living with her mother's boyfriend, a convicted sex offender. Local agents arrested the offender, who was later sentenced to more than 70 years in jail.

The article also reports occupational stress impacts on Squire: sustained exposure and pressure took a toll, including increased alcohol use, marriage breakdown, and suicidal thoughts. A colleague, Pete Manning, encouraged Squire to seek help.

Last summer, Squire met Lucy, now in her 20s, for the first time. Lucy said she had more stability and support and that she had been praying actively for the abuse to end.

Source URL: https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/cx2gn239exlo

