TALLAHASSEE MAN SENTENCED TO TWENTY YEARS IN FEDERAL PRISON FOR CHILD EXPLOITATION CRIME

Northern District of Florida
U.S. Attorney's Office
Press Release

TALLAHASSEE, FLORIDA – Ryan Isbell, 36, of Tallahassee, Florida, was sentenced to 20 years in federal prison after previously pleading guilty to producing child pornography. The sentence was announced by U.S. Attorney Jason R. Heekin.

U.S. Attorney Heekin said: "The sexual exploitation and abuse of children is one of the most heinous crimes that deserves severe punishment, and this successful prosecution and lengthy prison sentence demonstrates our commitment to protecting children and holding offenders accountable."

Court documents reflect that in 2020 the Tallahassee Police Department received reports that the defendant's social media account contained child pornography. During the execution of a November 2020 arrest warrant, law enforcement officers seized multiple electronic devices from Isbell's residence. A forensic examination of the devices revealed that Isbell had produced child sexual abuse material depicting a minor victim.

"The production of child sexual abuse material is a horrific crime that inflicts lasting trauma and violates the very innocence of our children," said Homeland Security Investigations Tallahassee Assistant Special Agent in Charge David Pezzutti. "HSI is committed to working with our law enforcement partners to identify, investigate, and bring to justice those who prey on the most vulnerable members of our society."

The defendant's imprisonment will be followed by a 15-year term of supervised release, meaning if he violates any of the conditions of his supervision, he will potentially face an additional period of incarceration. The defendant was also ordered to pay restitution to the victim and will be required to register as a sex offender.

The sentence was the result of a joint investigation by the Tallahassee Police Department and the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement's Homeland Security Investigations. The case was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Stephen Kunz.

This case was brought as part of Project Safe Childhood, a nationwide initiative to combat the growing epidemic of child sexual exploitation and abuse. Launched in May 2006 by the Department of Justice, Project Safe Childhood marshals federal, state, and local resources to better locate, apprehend, and prosecute individuals who exploit children via the Internet, as well as to identify and rescue victims. For more information about Project Safe Childhood, please visit www.projectsafechildhood.gov.

The United States Attorney's Office for the Northern District of Florida is one of 94 offices that serve as the nation's principal litigators under the direction of the Attorney General. To access public court documents online, please visit the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Florida.

Contact: USAO-NDFL
Source URL: https://www.justice.gov/usao-ndfl/pr/tallahassee-man-sentenced-twenty-years-federal-prison-child-exploitation-crime
