KNOW2PROTECT ®
TIPS2PROTECT AGAINST SADISTIC
ONLINE EXPLOITATION
KNOW THE THREATS
Online child sexual exploitation and abuse (CSEA) continues to evolve with increased violence targeting kids and
teens online. In 2025, criminal activity associated with Sadistic Online Exploitation (SOE) increased drastically.
According to the Department of Homeland Security, SOE networks are online groups that share and spread
violent real-life media, including child sexual abuse material (CSAM), murder, suicide, rape, incest, self-harm,
arson, doxxing, swatting, animal cruelty and suicide. Online predators in these networks target and exploit
minor and vulnerable populations and use threats, peer pressure, blackmail and manipulation to force kids
and teens to engage in behaviors they would not normally do or leverage behaviors they already exhibit to
create this violent content.
These SOE networks, referred to as “communities” or “the com” by the people involved, operate across
international borders and function through leadership roles and hierarchy. Since they operate through online
platforms, they can exploit and abuse kids and teens anywhere in the world.
In 2024, the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children’s CyberTipline
received over 1,300 reports related to violent online groups — a more than
200% increase from 2024 and over 1,500% increase since 20221.
SOE networks use various methods to attract victims, often targeting vulnerable individuals related to self-
harm, depression, eating disorders and mental health. They also engage with kids and teens on social media
and gaming platforms, using violent content to lure them to more anonymous platforms for extreme content
and extortion. SOE groups often overlap with other adjacent groups who may inadvertently stumble upon SOE
groups. After befriending victims, these online predators request explicit images, self-harm, animal cruelty and
violent or antisemitic content, then use this to extort victims into creating more extreme material.
These communities are not limited to adults preying on minors — but often include peer-on-peer crimes as well.
Kids and teens are targeting others, using similar adult predator methodology, and it is often overlooked as
“kids being kids.”
1 missingkids.org/gethelpnow/cybertipline/cybertiplinedata
Together We Can Stop Online Child Exploitation™
To learn more, visit know2protect.gov

-- 1 of 5 --

TIPS2PROTECT AGAINST SADISTIC ONLINE EXPLOITATION
According to Homeland Security Investigations forensic interview specialists, many kids and teens report
that they are directly seeking these communities online, which is different than being directly targeted by adults.
In these situations, once part of “the com,” they become desensitized to violent online content and the coercion
they undergo appears more like a trust building exercise than one of threat and force. Additionally, the victim-to-
perpetrator pipeline is very prevalent in these groups. Kids and teens may start out as victims and then become
perpetrators of these crimes.
In 2024, law enforcement officers estimated that SOE networks comprised
hundreds of members, to include:
CVLT
• Pronounced “cult,” is a neo-Nazi child exploitation network founded in 2019.
• The creator of this enterprise coerced minors to self-generate CSAM and had victims carve
  his name into their skin to create a permanent scar. This is often referred to as branding,
  cut signs, fan signs or blood signs.
• This group has disbanded and is no longer active, but references to it are still made online.
764
• The 764 network is a global online exploitation group created in 2021 by a teen living in Texas.
• It started as a peer-to-peer network and still primarily involves youth-on-youth acts of
  exploitation and violence, but as members have aged, it now also includes adult acts against
  children and teens, teen-on-teen and teen-on-adult acts of exploitation and violence.
• There are many subgroup names that fall under 764.
• Members of 764 exploit victims, who often have mental health challenges, through peer
  pressure and fear, to gain control over their victims and coerce them into risky and
  often illegal behavior. They also host online “watch parties” or “cut shows” to celebrate
  and share these harmful acts via livestream. These parties may also be called “cut stages”
  or “stages” as a form of slang.
HSI has been working tirelessly, along with other law enforcement agencies, to protect children
and teens from these heinous groups and the individuals that commit these crimes.
Together We Can Stop Online Child Exploitation™
To learn more, visit know2protect.gov

-- 2 of 5 --

TIPS2PROTECT AGAINST SADISTIC ONLINE EXPLOITATION
Tactics used by SOE networks
Manipulation tactics to engage in violence is when one person pressures another and makes them
feel like they have no choice but to participate in something that they normally would not do. This is
common on apps with group chats, online scams, gaming and other social media platforms.
Threats or violence used to intimidate is when one person uses violence or the threat of
violence to harm or scare another into doing something they wouldn’t normally do such as self-
harm, or engage in swatting and doxxing.
Online Grooming: Process by which an online predator establishes a connection with a victim by offering
support and attention to gain their trust, gathers personal information about them, desensitizes them to sexual
content by introducing sexually explicit conversations and pornographic imagery and exploits any vulnerabilities
they may have. Often, online predators pretend to be minors themselves to manipulate children and teens into
providing nude or partially nude images or videos of themselves. They then use the material to coerce children
and teens into sending more graphic images and videos. With the rise in SOE, online grooming is now evolving
and is used for any sort of coercion, trust building or the first steps of victimization.
Self-harm: Hurting or damaging one’s own body on purpose, without suicidal intent, usually in response to
intense emotional distress or negative thoughts or feelings. This can include cutting, burning, biting, scratching,
picking at wounds or scabs so they don’t heal, pulling out hair, punching or hitting the body.
Branding: Serves as an indication of membership, submission or acceptance into an organization or group.
Often, a mark or symbol is burned, etched or carved into a person with the intention of creating a permanent
scar on the individual’s body, also referred to as “cut signs” or “blood signs.” Marks or symbols can also be
written on a person and referred to as, “fan signs.”
Traditional Sextortion: When an online predator threatens or blackmails a victim into providing sexually
explicit content; the online predator threatens to share this content with the public.
Financial Sextortion: When an online predator demands money or gift cards in exchange for keeping the
victim’s sexual content private. This tends to be rare with SOE.
Sadistic Sextortion: When an online predator threatens the victim to undergo suffering or submission
through violence, self-harm or destruction for sadistic or sinister purposes, often coordinated through
organized SOE networks2.
Cyberbullying: Bullying that can be conducted on digital devices, such as computers, gaming platforms or cell
phones. This is used to hurt, threaten or embarrass others online. In some instances, it may cross the line into
unlawful or criminal behavior. This is on the rise with SOE networks.
2 thorn.org/research/library/sexual-extortion-young-people
Together We Can Stop Online Child Exploitation™
To learn more, visit know2protect.gov

-- 3 of 5 --

TIPS2PROTECT AGAINST SADISTIC ONLINE EXPLOITATION
VIRAL CHALLENGES SPREAD THROUGH ONLINE EXPLOITATION ENTERPRISES
Other examples of global online exploitation enterprises are the challenges that spread on social media
platforms, such as the “Blackout Challenge” or the “Tide Pod Challenge.” These challenges use peer pressure
and group intimidation to coerce and manipulate kids and teens to do things such as engage in risky or harmful
behavior that they would not otherwise do.
In 2019, Matthew E. Minor, a 12-year-old boy from Maryland, died of accidental asphyxiation as a part of the
“Blackout Challenge” on TikTok. The “blackout challenge,” which is widespread on social media platforms,
encourages kids and teens to strangle themselves to the point of passing out and capture it on video or livestream.
In 2022, Bloomberg reported that in an 18-month period, this same challenge caused at least 20 deaths; 15 to
children ages 12 and under; and at least 5 children between the ages of 13 and 14.
Tips2Identify Involvement in SOE
The following list identifies possible indicators that a child or teen may be in danger from SOE:
• Self-harm in the form of symbols or characters, to include carving it or writing on themselves.
• Interest in Neo-Nazi symbology.
• Increased attention or obsession with mass attackers or mass shooters.
• Interest in satanic symbology.
• The use of alphanumeric nomenclature in names or symbols.
• Scars, often in patterns.
• Fresh cuts, scratches, bruises, bite marks, burns or other wounds.
• Writing in blood or what appears to be blood.
• Suicidal ideations.
• Lack of empathy or acting as if they don’t believe in anything, such as religions, morals, love, code of conduct or rules.
• Harming pets or other animals or the animals suddenly fearing the child or teen.
• Law enforcement being called to your home under false pretenses such as doxxing or swatting events.
• Random occurrences at your address, such as unexpected deliveries, which is a form of swatting without law enforcement involvement meant to harass.
Together We Can Stop Online Child Exploitation™
To learn more, visit know2protect.gov

-- 4 of 5 --

TIPS2PROTECT AGAINST SADISTIC ONLINE EXPLOITATION
HOW2RESPOND
Take immediate action if you know or suspect a child or teen is a victim of online CSEA.
• Remain calm. This will help deescalate any situation that may be occurring.
• Take the device offline (turn on “airplane mode”) so the content cannot be remotely erased, deleted
  or altered by the offender.
• Save all communication — do not delete. This could be important evidence for law enforcement.
• Do not initiate contact with the “friends”, network or community in question. If you or the child or teen
  is contacted by them, ignore all communication.
• Contact law enforcement and allow them access to all information, including devices, available so that
  they can respond as necessary.
• Do not send images from the child’s or teen’s device to any other device. It is illegal to disseminate CSAM.
HOW2REPORT
You can submit a report in one of the following ways:
• Call the Know2Protect Tipline at 833-591-KNOW (5669). All information received via the Tipline will be
  reviewed by appropriate personnel and referred to Homeland Security Investigations field offices for
  potential investigation.
• Contact your local, state or tribal law enforcement officials directly. In an emergency, call 911.
• Submit a CyberTipline report with the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children at
  report.cybertip.org.
Visit dhs.gov/know2protect/how-to-report to learn more.
Resources
• Survivor Support Page: Know2Protect shares resources and tips on how to help victims of online CSEA.
  Visit dhs.gov/know2protect/survivor-support to learn more.
• Take It Down: The National Center for Missing and Exploited Children offers a free service to help remove online nude,
  partially nude or sexually explicit photos and videos taken before age 18. Visit takeitdown.ncmec.org to learn more.
Together We Can Stop Online Child Exploitation™
To learn more, visit know2protect.gov

-- 5 of 5 --
